I am a grass that has come to the middle of a mountain, a huge rock. No other plant can thrive next to me.Gange wrote only for me: Kucho! Let the rock be your parents, your fate and luck, your past and future!
– Rock! Is it because you are my parents, my guardian and owner?
– It's me, don't be afraid, dark one.
There are hard-packed boulders around. Who knows how far they have rooted; Some of them don't even listen to me, as if I don't even exist; They stare into the abyss. What are they looking for, what did they lose there? They won't tell me, even if I ask a thousand times, what they are thinking, their thoughts are limitless, their hearts are unknowable. Sometimes the rock turns brown, perhaps something is bothering him. Otherwise, my mother is unyielding and brave; He is not afraid of the avalanche, which sometimes falls on us with thunder in winter, it will come and fall into the abyss with a roar, fall and, as if resting, heaving a heavy sigh. The rock sometimes even stirs. I also cry then, I see my mother's tears and that's why. My mother stares at her murdered children, who are always in front of her eyes; Even if he wants a lot, he cannot take his eyes off. The children of the rock are boulders, thrown down one by one, weaned from the breast of the rock, the breast of it...
Well, Dablida how cruelly they sneered at their parents, as if begging them, why don't you take us there, why aren't we near you. It would be in vain to ask them, to beg them, even if they could destroy it; But what can they do? I also sprinkle them on my head and sprinkle the dew with one or two drops. For them it is very pleasant.
He even gave me a friend, sometimes I would talk to him. God help the flowers, if they die on the other side of the mountain. They hum sweetly, they sing sweetly in a soft, low voice; They too, like me, lucky, will meet Pirimze. Beautiful Pirimzev, how far you are from me, but still how you kiss my heart!
How I rushed, I stared intently, I can't take my eyes off of him for a minute, I love him so much, and he doesn't look away from me even once to revive my dead, burnt heart; He looks at the sun, he meets it. The sun shines on Pirim. From the east to the west, the eye and the mouth follow it; When the sun goes down, he will be white, he will be sad to part with Satrfo. Pirimze's cry makes me cry too. I think I saw it yesterday. No, he is holy, sinless, and I am ugly and sinful. Should I be surrounded by blood and gore?! It's all the fault of that old eagle that nests next to me. If he wakes up in the morning, he barks hideously, threatens someone, glares at Diderot, the bloodthirsty, and then drags him out to death; All the birds give way. He brings the game, he sits on top of me, one of them is cut into a stone, it screams, blood comes out and I cry. Why will I avoid it? I'm red with blood, then the sun looks at me and calls out this blood on my body. Blessed be the rainmaker! Sometimes he washes me. Undoubtedly, because of this blood, Pirim's eyes are cringing, otherwise he would have called me once: street! Son of the rock, hail yours!
I love this flower... Men call it a flower, because its face and eyes are always directed towards the sun, it is a reflection of the sun; As the child's eyes follow the mother and tries to hide her mother, so does this. The sun is the mother, Pirimze is the son of the sun.
Who knows if I love Pirim? What is this kind of love anyway? I can't go to him, he can't go to me, we can't kiss each other. Such love is a pleasant suffering. I look forward to the dawn, then I will see my fate. When winter comes, my heart will turn black and sink into the ground. I would like to invest in it, so that one part of me would meet that one face to face. Spring will come, Pirim will come alive and I will come alive then. I forget the moss and moss hanging on my back, I feel like I'm on a pyrim and I say like a madman: Your plague, beautiful, yours!
Would you like to know where the flowers go in the winter? I think it's called death. Who taught me the word death? Here is this boulder, which stuck its nose on my side and stopped the country with fury. That and that two hundred year old eagle. No, death doesn't have to be good. Yesterday, that restless old man swallowed a grouse. On my head, how much the sabrolo moaned, and he squealed mercilessly, mocking with his diamond beak.
– Street, Benterav, that's called death! - Lod whispered to me. I cried out of pity for the grouse. If this is really death, it must not be good...
Once I saw a horrible sight, it was like death. If a big field can be seen below, far away, this story happened in those fields. A crowd of people appeared from two sides. They were all beautiful, beautifully dressed; They are sitting on horses, gracefully and moving towards each other with great speed. I couldn't understand what you were saying because of the distance. They avoided each other, I couldn't take my eyes off the glint of the weapon, it was burning me. They throw each other from their horses, shout at each other, hit each other with swords.
At the end, they all hid as if a riot had struck. By the time Janghi was finished, the evening was approaching. I saw the horsemen running on their steeds in the field like these boulders. This picture was a satirical picture for me and I even cried. They would lose their beauty. It hurt me and it made me cry.
Sun, look at me! It's raining, man! High rock, save my roots, don't lose my life, don't dig me up, don't uproot me!
Upward, Turfav, beautiful! The sun of your beauty, look at me at least once in a thousand, appreciate your smile! I'm poor, I'm a dirty street, have mercy on me! You mountain breeze, life-giving spirit of nature! Cool me, cool my hot heart!
The eagle, the average bird! If you believe in God, try not to show my eyes when you make the blood of innocent souls; Do not let my ears hear their moaning, for their moaning is my moaning, my heart's anguish and woe. Creator, protect me, save me from the street hanging on a barren rock!..